The cinema of India comprises films produced in India, where more than 1800 movies are produced annually.Major centres of film production in the country include Mumbai, Hyderabad, Chennai, Kolkata, New Delhi, Amritsar, Kochi, Bangalore, Bhubaneshwar-Cuttack, and Guwahati. As of 2018, India ranked first in terms of annual film output. In 2015, India had a total box office gross of US$2.1 billion, the third largest in the world. The overall revenue of Indian cinema reached US$2.7 billion in 2019.
The industry is segmented by language. In 2019, the Hindi film industry represented 44% of box office revenue, followed by the Tamil and the Telugu film industries, each representing 13%. Other prominent film industries include Malayalam and Kannada film industries representing 5% each, as well as Bengali, Marathi, Punjabi and Bhojpuri film industries, representing the 5% combined. By 2020, the combined revenue of all other film industries has surpassed that of the Hindi film industry. In 2021, Telugu cinema was the largest film industry of India in terms of box-office.
Indian cinema is a global enterprise, and the films have a following throughout Southern Asia and across Europe, North America, Asia, the Greater Middle East, Eastern Africa, China and elsewhere, reaching over 90 countries. Films like Bahubali: The Beginning were dubbed in more than three languages, thus starting a Pan-India films movement. Millions of Indians overseas watch Indian films, accounting for some 12% of revenues.
The first Indian film released in India was Shree Pundalik, a silent film in Marathi by Dadasaheb Torne on 1912-03-18 at Coronation Cinematograph, Bombay. Some have argued that Pundalik was not the first Indian film, because it was a photographic recording of a play, and because the cameraman was a British man named Johnson and the film was processed in London.
The second full-length motion picture in India was produced by Dadasaheb Phalke, Phalke is seen as the pioneer of the Indian film industry and a scholar of India's languages and culture. He employed elements from Sanskrit epics to produce his Raja Harishchandra (1913), a silent film in Marathi. The female characters in the film were played by male actors.[51] Only one print of the film was made, for showing at the Coronation Cinematograph on 03-03-1913. It was a commercial success. The first silent film in Tamil, Keechaka Vadham was made by R. Nataraja Mudaliar in 1916.
India is one of the world’s leading film entertainment markets, with the overall revenue raised by the Indian film industry exceeding 90 billion Indian rupees in 2021. A major share of this revenue was contributed by the sector’s digital and over-the-top (OTT) rights.

